UNIT 6

The Internet and email

GRAMMAR

# Yes-No question

- Câu hỏi có thể bắt đầu bằng trợ động từ

**Are** there other ways of accessing the Internet?

- Hoặc do/does (hiện tại đơn) hoặc did (quá khứ đơn)

**Did** the Internet become popular quickly?

# Wh- question

- Người

**Who** created the Internet?

- Vật

**What** does TCP/IP mean? **Which** email program is the best?

- Nơi chốn

**Where** can you find newsgroups?

- Thời gian

**When** was it created? **How often** are web pages updated?

**How long** has broadband existed?

- Lý do

**Why** do you need a modem?

- Số lượng

**How much** does broadband access cost?

**How many** newsgroups are there?

- Manner

**How** do you get online?

- Khác

**How fast** are today's internet connections?

**How old** is the Internet?

Make a question about Sue Clarke for each of her answers.

How old are you?
1. I'm 23 years old.

What do you do? What's your job?
2. I'm an online researcher.

What do you do? What does your job involve?
3. I use the Internet to find information requested by clients.

How long have you been doing this job?
4. I've been doing this job for six months.

When did you graduate from University?
5. I graduated from university in 2006.

B In pairs, make questions using these prompts. Then practise asking and answering the questions.

Example: When / first / use the Internet When did you first use the Internet?

1 What type of internet connection / have at home?
2 How fast / your internet connection?
3 How much / pay for broadband access?
4 How often / access the Internet?
5 Which email program / use?
6 Who / send email to?
7 Do / use your mobile phone to access the Internet?
8 Do / use the Internet in public spaces using Wi-Fi?
9 Do / play games online?
10 How many newsgroups / subscribe to?

# Listen and complete the customer’s notes

To connect to the Internet from home, I need:

(1) a _computer_ and (2) a _modem_.

Also need an account with an (3) _Internet service provider ISP_ (a company that offers connection for a monthly fee).

If you want to connect lots of computers without using cables, you can use a (4) _wireless_ router.

Wi-Fi uses (5) _radio_ waves to send data over medium-range distances.

Things you can do on the Internet:

(6) _email, file transfer, newsgroups, real-time chats, instant messaging, looking for information on the web_

‘Web’ or ‘Internet’? The Web: huge collection of (7) _pages_ stored on computers all over the world. The Internet: the network which connects all the computers.

# Internet FAQs: Part 1 (1)

## How old is the Internet (the Net)? When was it created?

It's hard to say exactly. The research that led to what we now know as the Internet was begun in the 1960s.

## Who created the Internet?

Again, it's hard to say exactly who created it. The initial research was carried out by the Advanced Research Projects Agency in America, funded by the US government.

## Did the Internet become popular quickly?

It took many years for the Internet to become popular around the world. It's only really since the mid-90s that the Internet has been a part of our daily lives.

## How do you get online?

To get connected, you need a computer, the right connection software and a **modem** connected to the phone line. You also need an account with an **Internet Service Provider (ISP)**, which acts as a gateway between your PC and the rest of the Net.

## How fast are today's internet connections?

Today, ISPs offer a **broadband**, high-speed connection. The most common types are cable - offered by local cable TV companies - and **ADSL** (Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line), which works through phone lines. They are both faster than the traditional dial-up telephone connection. Broadband access is also offered by some electricity networks. This competing technology, known as power-line Internet, provides low-cost access via the power plug, but is still in development.

# Internet FAQs: Part 1 (2)

## How long has broadband existed?
Since the late 1990s.

## How much does broadband access cost?
It depends on which company you choose. Nowadays, some companies even offer free broadband.

## Why do you need a modem?
A modem (modulator/demodulator) converts digital signals into analogue signals so that data can be transmitted across the phone or cable network.

## What does TCP/IP mean?
The language used for data transfer on the Internet is known as TCP/IP (transmission control protocol/ Internet protocol). This is like the internet operating system. Every computer connected to the Net is identified by a unique IP address.

## Are there other ways of accessing the Internet?
Other methods of internet access include Wi-Fi, satellite, mobile phones and TV sets equipped with a modem. Wi-Fi-enabled laptops or PDAs allow you to connect to the Net if you are near a wireless access point, in locations called hotspots (for example, a Wi-Fi cafe, park or campus). Satellite services are used in places where terrestrial access is not available (for example, on ships at sea). High-end mobile phones provide access through the phone network.

# Read Part 1 of the Internet FAQs and choose the correct answers

1. The Internet was
a invented in the mid-90s.
b popular in the 1960s.
c probably created in the USA.

2. Which term describes any fast, high-bandwidth connection?
a broadband
b dial-up connection
c Wi-Fi connection

3. The power-line Internet provides broadband access through
a telephone lines.
b satellites.
c electrical power lines.

4. Which device converts computer data into a form that can be transmitted over phone lines?
a ADSL
b a mobile phone
c a modem

5. The standard protocol that allows computers to communicate over the Internet is called
a an IP address.
b TCP/IP.
c HTTP.

6. The geographical region covered by one or several access points is called a
a wireless access point.
b hotspot.
c wireless network device.

# Internet FAQs: Part 2 (1)

## Email

Email lets you exchange messages with people all over the world. Optional attached files can include text, pictures and even audio and animation. A mailing list uses email to communicate messages to all its subscribers - that is, everyone that belongs to the list.

## Which email program is the best?

Outlook Express is a popular program, but many users use web-based email accounts such as Hotmail.

## The Web

The Web consists of billions of documents living on web servers that use the HTTP protocol. You navigate through the Web using a program called a web browser, which lets you search, view and print web pages.

## How often are web pages updated?

It depends entirely on the page. Some are updated thousands of times a day.

## Chat and Instant Messaging (IM)

Chat and Instant Messaging technologies allow you to have real-time conversations online, by typing messages at the keyboard.

# Internet FAQs: Part 2 (2)

## FTP

FTP, or file transfer protocol, is used to transfer files over a TCP/IP network. Nowadays, this feature is built into Web browsers. You can download programs, games and music files from a remote computer to your hard drive.

## Telnet

Telnet is a protocol and a program used to log onto remote computer systems. It enables you to enter commands that will be executed as if you were entering them directly on the remote server.

## Newsgroups

**Newsgroups** are the public discussion areas which make up a system called Usenet. The contents are contributed by people who post articles or respond to articles, creating chains of related postings called message threads. You need a **newsreader** to subscribe to newsgroups and to read and post messages. The newsreader may be a stand-alone program or part of a web browser.

**How many newsgroups are there?**

There are approximately 30,000 active newsgroups.

**Where can you find newsgroups?**

Your newsreader may allow you to download the newsgroup addresses that your ISP has included on its news server. An alternative to using a newsreader is to visit **web forums** instead, which perform the same function but without the additional software.

In pairs, discuss which of the internet systems (1-6) you would use to do the tasks (a-f).

1. Email
2. The Web
3. Newsgroups
4. Chat and IM
5. FTP
6. Telnet

a. transfer files from the Internet to your hard drive
b. send a message to another person via the Internet
c. have a live conversation (usually typed) online
d. connect to a remote computer by entering instructions, and run a program on it
e. take part in public discussion areas devoted to specific topics
f. download and view documents published on the Internet

C Find words and phrases in Part 2 with the following meanings.

1. a system used to distribute email to many different subscribers at once (in Email paragraph) = mailing list
2. a program used for displaying web pages (in The Web paragraph) = web browser
3. to connect to a computer by typing your username and password (in Telnet paragraph) = log onto
4. a series of interrelated messages on a given topic (in Newsgroups paragraph) = message thread
5. a program for reading Usenet newsgroups (in Newsgroups paragraph) = newsreader

# Email features

When you set up an account with an Internet Service Provider, you are given an email address and a password. The mail you receive is stored on the mail server of your ISP - in a simulated mailbox - until you next connect and download it to your hard drive.

There are two ways to get email over the Internet. One is by using a mail program (known as an email client) installed on your computer, for example Eudora or Outlook Express. The other way is to use web-based email, accessible from any web browser. Hotmail and Gmail are good examples.

You can make the message more expressive by including emoticons, also called smileys. For example, ;-) for wink, :-) for happy, :-o for surprised, :-D for laughing, etc. You may also like to add a signature file, a pre-written text file appended to the end of the message. The name given to unsolicited email messages is spam.

## The anatomy of an email

**The header**

To: name and address of the recipient

From: name and address of the sender

Cc: carbon copy sent to another person

Bcc: blind carbon copy

Subject: topic of the message

Attachment: files added to the message

**The username (a person's name or nickname)**

The @ sign, which means at

The domain name or network address - that is, the mail server where the account is located.

The final part adds information about it, for example com = company, uk = United Kingdom, fr = France, etc.

The body contains the message itself

# Read the text and find the following.

1. The place where your ISP stores your emails
▸ mail server
2. The type of program used to read and send email from a computer
▸ mail program/email client
3. The part of an email address that identifies the user of the service
▸ Username
4. The line that describes the content of an email
▸ Subject
5. The computer file which is sent along with an email message
▸ Attachment
6. Facial symbols used to indicate an emotion or attitude
▸ Emoticons / smileys
7. The name given to junk mail
▸ spam

